.TH opentyrian 6 "October 2009" "" "OpenTyrian Manual"
.SH NAME
opentyrian \- an open-source port of the DOS game Tyrian
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B opentyrian
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Tyrian is an arcade-style vertical scrolling shooter.  The story is set
in 20,031 where you play as Trent Hawkins, a skilled fighter-pilot employed
to fight MicroSol and save the galaxy.

Tyrian features a story mode, one- and two-player arcade modes, and networked
multiplayer.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.PP
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.BR \-h "\fR,\fP " "\-\^\-help"
Display help and exit.
.TP
.BR \-s "\fR,\fP " "\-\^\-no\-sound"
Disable audio.
.TP
.BR \-j "\fR,\fP " "\-\^\-no\-joystick"
Disable joystick/gamepad input.
.TP
.BI \-t "\fR,\fP " "\-\^\-data " "directory"
Set alternative Tyrian data directory.
.TP
.BI \-n "\fR,\fP " "\-\^\-net " "host\fR[:\fPport\fR]\fP"
Start a networked game; 
.I
host 
is the IP address of your opponent. Use this option together with
.B
\-\^\-net\-player\-name
and
.B
\-\^\-net\-player\-number
to join game.

OpenTyrian uses UDP port 
.B
1333
for multiplayer, but in most cases players will not need to open any ports
because OpenTyrian makes use of UDP hole punching.

.TP
.BI "\-\^\-net\-player\-name " "name"
Set
.I
name
as your alias for multiplayer game.
.TP
.BI "\-\^\-net\-player\-number " "number"
Select ship;
.I
number
is either 1 or 2 depending on which ship you intend to pilot.

.TP
.BI \-p "\fR,\fP " "\-\^\-net\-port " "port"
Set local port to bind.
.TP
.BI \-d "\fR,\fP " "\-\^\-net\-delay " "frames"
Set lag-compression delay.
.TP
.BR \-x "\fR,\fP " "\-\^\-no\-xmas"
Disable Christmas mode.

.SH COPYRIGHT
This program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
under certain conditions. See the file COPYING for details.

Data files bundled with this package come from Tyrian 2.1 data files
which have been released as freeware.

Daniel Cook released graphic files under very liberal
license ("use and abuse them as desired").

.SH AUTHOR
.PP
This manual page was written by Patryk Obara <patryk.obara@gmail.com>
basing on AshTR's README file.

